# DSA-Final-Project

Algorithm Visualizer is the name of the DSA(Data Structure and Algorithm) Project, in Which The Sorting and Searching Algorithms are used and visualized with the help of Jawa Swing and Graphics libraries of java, such as Bubble Sort, Selection Sort, Binary Searching, Insertion Sort, Quick Sort, and Merge Sort. These are the important techniques and Concepts of Data Structure and Algorithm that helps us for better understanding of the manipulation , Searching , and Sorting on Data in DSA. The Sorting Algorithm that are included in this project helps us for the understanding of these algorithm that how the data is comparing , changing , and swaping in each technique. This project breaks the complexity of Sorting Algorithms and make it eassy to understand the internal functionality of the algorithms. In this Project, We can Visualize and Understand Easily with the help of the Graphics, for example We can Visualize and Understand the implementation of the bubble Sort and Divide & Conquer Rule (Which is most important concept and technique that every DSA students has to Understand) and Most importantly, We can Understand Step by step working of the Sorting techniques. Step-by-step working of each algorithm is provided in this project for the better understanding of the techniques. In DSA, there are some Important Data Structures such as Binary Search trees. For the better understanding of the binary search trees, We can Start from the Binary Searching on Arrays. Because BST and Binary Search algorithm are some how relevant. In this project, the Binary Searching is Implemented and Visualized, We can give search value to the algorithm then it will divide the whole array from it,s mid, and this process continues until the search value is searched at the mid. In conclusion, These Sorting and Searching techniques are the important concepts in the Data Structure and Algorithm, for better understanding of these concepts we have to understand there internal implementation of algorithm, this projects helps us a lot to understand these algorithms.

Some Instructions to use this Project. step 1 : Download Any IDE(Integrated development Environment) which suppots the java Programming Language. step 2: Download the .Rar File Final Project Which is available at the github. you can access this File by using commands or directly download this file. step 3: Use the package provided in the File , where you will find Algorithms classes such as Bubble, Insertion, Quick, Merge, and Selection Sort. stepe 4: you can execute the Project from the main class of the peoject.
